Talking to John.
John, how do you pronounce your name?
Kucica.
Just the way it sounds.
And as long as those numbers portraying as they are, I'll put it like this so I can see it.
That way I'll have to check it.
So, John, you've been here.
You've been at Yale how long?
Since July of 2001.
Oh, fairly recent.
Fairly recent, yeah.
And your title?
Senior editor.
senior editor, and you specialize in areas, and you like literature, I guess, is what they say.
Literature, literary studies, philosophy, poetry, and here and there politics.
Hmm.
So poetry from the Yale Younger Poet Series?
That does.
John Holliday, by the way, too, is another one of my subjects.
John would be one of the best on the history.
But I've got that covered inside out, yeah.
Good.
So I do oversee the L-series vulnerability.
As you know, it started in 1919.
However, we went 80-some years into the history of the series without a female judge.
Wow.
So I actually have the distinction of having appointed the first female judge of the series, Louise Gillespie.
So Louise is the current judge.
There's one year left on her contract, and I will probably extend to her an offer to renew that contract.
And the original contract was for how long?
The original contract was for five years.
I love that.
It's almost unique, isn't it, among competitions?
Right.
The idea for extending a long contract like that is that an individual poet gets to shape a generation of new voices.
So W.H.
Auden, for example, was judge of the series for 11 years.
And so talk a little bit about how he worked to shape American poetry during that period.
I mean, some people think, some historians of the series think that Auden was the best judge of the series.
I mean, he, for example, picked John Hollander.
He picked John Ashbery.
I think he may have picked as well Robert Haas.
Let me see.
If you don't know this book, you'll want to look at it.
The Younger Poets Anthology.
The introduction by George Bradley is first-rate.
But among others, Auden picked W.S.
Merlin, Adrienne Rich, John Ashbery, James Wright.
And these are the first published collections of these.
That's right.
It's the first book away.
So when you think, you know, when these people are being introduced,
African literary world.
Their names could be anyone's name.
We know them now as great American poets, but a lot of them is picking, is plucking these talents out of this.
You get hundreds of, dozens of scores, I don't know.
You get a lot of applicants participating.
Last year I got about 700.
700?
Wow.
You must put together a short list, Walker, though.
I have a group of six or seven readers, each responsible for about a hundred manuscripts.
They will winnow those hundred down to four or five, which they then pass on to Louise.
And from those, she makes her selection.
It's my responsibility, don't you think?
Oh, absolutely.
You know, the series, I suppose, is interesting for all of those who have come out of it, but the series is so old and distinguished that it's also interesting to see who's been passed over.
Sylvia Plath, for example, was devastated because she didn't win.
She entered at least once.
Is there something in any of her biographies that I can... I think you could probably, yeah, you could easily find that.
Louise Glick, for example, entered three or four times in everyone.
The judge, the woman who is judging the competition.
Where is she at?
She's now at Yale.
She's teaching here at Yale.
So I could probably send her an email and chat with her.
No, Louise doesn't do email.
But I'd love to get a quote from her.
Oh, yeah.
Could you put me in touch?
I could.
You should speak with me.
When I get back, I'll send you an email.
Absolutely.
A telephoner is fine.
It doesn't have to be a sit-down, but I'd love to get some thoughts.
I really want to give, and let me just say, this should go on the record, to grab my attention when I get back to transcribing, how important it is.
In terms of
a nut here, what Yale spends and how much it generates in terms of income.
The poetry series probably doesn't even measure on a richer scale, right?
It's minuscule.
That's right.
And I don't know how many copies of the book that you published.
What would you say the actual annual print mark is?
An average book in the series may sell in cloth of 1,500 copies at the outside.
Well, that's pretty good.
That's very good.
Yeah.
But even if it were 300 or 400 or 500, there's no question that we would do it.
Oh, no.
Yeah, no.
Absolutely.
We published the winner.
Period.
And this is part of the mission, not to use an overused word, but the mission of a university prospect, this one in particular.
I mean, is that something that you can pick up on?
Sure, and particularly the series.
You know, it is, the Yale series of younger poets is the oldest annual literary award in North America.
There isn't one that's older.
So it is, um... It's not only the fact that it's venerable.
I'm interrupting you.
I shouldn't do that.
But, you know, we have any number of other literary awards.
that recognized fiction, that recognized whatever, but I just wonder how important this particular, not just the award, but the competition is to sustaining American poetry.
It's significant.
Nobody really publishes poetry anymore.
It's so hard for a young poet to go out and to find some validation in terms of not only being published, but being considered for cover.
To give you hope and to... Yeah, I mean, I think you could make the argument that the Yale series of younger poets is its own credible national literature.
I mean, if you just look at... That's exactly what I wanted to.
Thank you.
Keep going with it.
But if you look at all of the American poets that have been published in the series since 1919, it's not quite the American canon, but it's...
You know it's a lot of our important and significant poets of the 20th century. I don't think it's a stretch to say to make this comparison. If somebody goes out and spends six million dollars for first full of Shakespeare that just happened a couple weeks ago. It's not that one person spent six million dollars. It's that there was an underbidder. It was somebody else who also, I mean you never you can't
You need two people to drive and to establish the price.
The comparison I'm trying to make is, it's not just the winner of the, you know, this poet.
Look at those who haven't won.
And yet, because there's competition and there's interest, it's not just that you get one winner, it's also that you have other very good people competing for it and generating the interest.
I don't know if that's a valid point to me, but it seems to me that
You have 700 entries.
That's the point.
That's the larger point.
It's a rite of passage.
Even if they don't win, entering the Younger Poets Competition is a rite of passage for any young poet who is considering a professional career.
And now you're about to embark on a playwright competition.
That's correct.
And if anything's harder in this country for creative artists than to publish poetry, it's to produce a play.
How in the world anyone would aspire to be a playwright when you realize how often and where are new plays mounted?
And now you have this competition that involves publication and a Yale rep staging.
I prefer to think of it as the trifecta.
The winner gets his or her winning manuscript published by Yale University Press.
Gets a staged reading at the Yale Rep with the possibility of a full production at the Yale Rep.
The Yale will have 90 days to exercise its options.
an option on the production of the play.
And the winner also gets a purse of $10,000, and that purse is called the David C. Horne Award.
No, the poet doesn't get a purse, right?
The poet does not get a purse.
We don't have that kind of endowment for the... So, at that level of the hop, the Horne endowment, that's mainly because
the benefactor has chosen to do that.
That's right.
Wouldn't it be nice if somebody were to come forward and do a similar sort of thing for the poet?
I'm just speaking speculatively.
You know, I'm looking for that.
So you are?
I'm looking for someone to create an endowment for the younger poet series.
We have a small endowment now, but it's not one that will allow us to give any kind of significant cash prize for winners.
But winning it is different.
A playwright actually hopes to make a commercial venture out of this.
If you're lucky, you hope to make a living out of it.
That would be a professional.
I think the playwrights may actually have a harder time than poets.
For whatever reason, Americans just
Don't read plays.
I mean, sure, they read Shakespeare.
If you're looking at one of the few, I have a full run of Tennessee Williams first edition, for instance, and it's the one collection I wouldn't part with, by the way.
But try this out as an exercise.
Go to your local Borders, Barnes & Noble.
Oh, try to find one.
Go to the drama section.
What you will find is Shakespeare, O'Neill, Tennessee Williams.
Maybe a paperback of who's played a Virginia Woolf.
Exactly.
David Mamet, things you'll find, maybe, because he's... Maybe.
But you will have, beyond a handful of names, you will probably now find a contemporary playwright represented on your shelf.
I think that's a wonderful idea.
And it generated in here, apparently.
Yes, that's right.
And this is one of those stories... It came out of this office, right?
Well, tell me a bit about it.
Out of the blue, I got a phone call from Francine Horn, the benefactor, and she said to me, what can you do with a million dollars?
And I proposed three different... You know sound bites, right?
You know, can you just see quotes, you know, then get into the manuscript?
That's one.
You gave me one earlier, several earlier, but that's perfect.
Keep going.
What could you do with a million dollars?
And did you know Francine Hornet?
I didn't know her.
She was pointed in my direction from Sandy McClatchy, the poet Sandy McClatchy.
And... Spell the name?
McClatchy?
Oh, it's G.G.
McClatchy.
Who I have to talk to, by the way, about Longfellow.
Yeah.
I'm doing an interview tomorrow with Chip Kidd, by the way.
He's talking about how things all come around from my column, Find Books and Collections.
Okay.
Doing a piece on... Down in New York or up here?
I wanted to get down to New York, but he's in Connecticut.
Okay.
So McClatchy.
Pointed her in my direction.
I outlined for her three different uh possibilities, um four different possibilities, only two of them even involving yeah. Um but the one that that really caught her imagination was the drama competition. Yeah who is she exactly? I mean obviously a woman of some means but. She and her husband her late husband made their money in the fashion industry
and her late husband, David, was an aspiring writer.
Had a friendship with many actors, including British actor.
He was in the movie The Unforgiven.
He played Bob.
Richard Harris.
Richard Harris is great, yeah, okay.
And he, in fact, he and Harris wrote a screenplay together.
But the point is, David had never published, but this was his aspiration.
So, to honor the memory of her husband, um... Approximately, how old is she?
Where is she?
She's 69.
That's why I'm 63.
But she wanted to do something, obviously, with her creative arts.
She wanted to do something that would, you know, outlive her, and that would go on for years and years.
So the idea was that the Yale drama series would be modeled in part on the Young and the Post competition.
So you generated that?
That's right.
So was this kind of on the fly, on the phone?
No, I gave her a written proposal.
But when you had this conversation,
How can I spend a million dollars?
I said you had three.
Had you been thinking about the playwright's... We talked in a very casual way, and I said, you know what, let me think about it, and let me give you a written proposal.
And, you know, it took her all two or three days to make up her mind.
And... So what really drove your...
I was thinking the dramatic arcs for a couple of reasons, primarily because it seems to me that, and I don't have an explanation as to why, but the dramatic arcs are not really treated as a part of American literary culture.
It's an oddity.
I mean, as I said already, you know, I don't think Americans really read plays.
Moreover, playwrights are not welcomed into the community of writers in the way that poets are.
Go back to Shakespeare's time.
They were scoundrels.
They were scoundrels and highwaymen.
And today, they're on the very margins of literary culture.
For example, look at all the MFA programs around the country.
There are very few programs that actually offer writing degrees in drama.
Why is that?
Look at all the summer writing conferences.
The only one that is open to playwrights, the only summer writing conference that has a dramatic arts writing component is the Sewanee Writers' Conference.
It's the only one.
And the flip side of that, of course, is every kid wants to be a script writer.
Because that's where the big money is to go out.
That's right.
And even then, that's not easy either.
But you have the USC, UCLA film school programs, plenty of programs on writing for film.
But really, very hardly anything to support legitimate theater.
That's right.
I mean, I think film has really knocked down the...
state of the stage.
It's a cousin in terms of the creative.
It's a cousin, yeah.
But it's a poor cousin.
A poor cousin.
Absolutely.
And I think this really does feed into the whole scope that I'm trying to apply here to this kind of lively, I hope, examination of the University Press and what University Press is supposed to do.
I mean, to survive today, you really have to sell
books like the Gombrich, you know, you'd love it when you read something like that.
God bless it.
It's a wonderful little book, and it sold 98,000 copies, and they're fabulous.
You know, the Kupuyama is way up there.
You know, the Gordidal is 100,000 copies.
And I think I'm actually getting a breakdown of how many books have sold over 5,000, how many fell over 10, and at least published 300 to 400 books a year.
But through all of this, as we, you know, put it through the great mixer, the great
You are performing a function for the world of letters and for the world of scholarship.
And here's an area, apparently, that you saw that was not existing.
And yet, it is part of the world of letters and the world of, I don't know, creation.
Am I thinking here?
Am I going according to what your mind thought?
No, absolutely.
I mean, I would say that Yale was a trade publisher.
It's a scholarly publisher, and it's also a publisher which is integral to American literary culture.
It's all of this.
I mean, my God, you know, the Yale Younger Poets Competition alone is just such an important part of American literary history.
You couldn't really tell the story.
of American poetry in the 20th century without talking about the American poetry competition.
I thought I'd get a quote from Ellen Bendler.
I'm sure she must have a thought on it.
It would be worth recording.
And again, Louise, if you get some quotes, one of them this year is actually... Louise would be great.
I'd love to get her voice in here, you know, on this album.
You might want to speak to a couple of the winners, too.
Okay.
A couple of them recent winners.
Sure.
Maybe you can recommend if you'll do it.
I can, sure.
Absolutely.
Let's talk generally, you know, about, what did you do?
You came here in 2001, July of 2001.
And why don't you just to finish the biography from where and your own background in publishing?
Sure.
I've been in the industry for 15 years.
Most of my career was in retail.
I worked many years in the Barnes & Noble corporate offices.
I also had been en route for a while toward an advanced degree in literature at Columbia.
Where did you do your undergrad?
Lehigh University.
That's how you know it would be Pennsylvania.
I bet, indeed, you're right.
And I also had this before I came... Home is where?
Home is Doylestown, Pennsylvania.
I'm sorry, and you've had this idea.
I do this, I'm sorry.
No, no, that's okay.
I was going to say that
I've had, for a while now, a moonlighting career as a fiction editor.
So when I came to Yale, it was not only with this retail background, but also as a fiction editor.
For a trade?
In a trade world, I edit Best in the American Voices for Harcourt.
I've also edited fiction for Scribner and other places.
I've probably edited 20 or 30 anthologies.
So that's...
Any authors in particular that would resonate?
Authors that you've edited?
Authors I've discovered, you know, I guess I could take credit for David Benioff, who wrote the novel The 25th Hour, which was adapt to the screen by Spike Lee.
Jennifer Vanderbese, I thought I was the first person to publish her.
Oh, gosh, there are lots of them.
Oh, that's right.
Is it an interest in literary fiction, per se, would you say?
Yeah, literary fiction, yeah.
Okay.
Well, you don't have to look now.
Again, these e-mails, the factual thing, which is very interesting because Yale really doesn't publish fiction.
That's right.
And so tell me how it happened that you came here to Yale as an editor.
It's not such an interesting story.
There was an ad in a publisher's book, which I called Jonathan, and that was it.
But what is it?
You must be looking for something in an editor.
Tell me how an editor functions in a place like you.
Well, I think that Jonathan's at the risk with me, because my route into editing is not the typical one.
I had all of this retail experience, and then I had this weird moonlighting career as a fiction editor.
I can see it myself, but maybe I find it very interesting.
It's certainly not the typical story.
I don't know that my career path is unique, but I can't really think of anyone else who spent so much time in retail and then made the jump.
What makes a good editor, in your view?
A good acquisitions editor.
So you said acquisitions.
Editor, I guess, there are all kinds of editors, right?
There are.
I mean, some acquisitions editors are also good manuscript editors.
Some acquisitions editors are
good publishers, but not necessarily.
They're different skill sets.
Of course, ideally you want someone who possesses all three.
You want someone who has an excellent acquisitions eye, who also has some skills, some manuscript editor, and who is also a savvy publisher.
Very rarely do you have to be at this quality in one person.
So if you go back to what makes a good acquisitions editor?
What makes a good acquisitions editor?
Well, first, it's, I mean, as Hemingway put it, it's having a good shift after.
I mean, you have to know shit when you see that.
But you'll... Oh, you've never written a Yale Press book?
I know.
But it's...
You know, you need to be able to see the dreck right away, but you also need to be able to see what's the value.
Well, does retail also give you an eye for the marketplace, too?
Yes.
Does that work into your deliberations?
It does indeed.
When I'm looking at trade books, I'm looking at them somewhat, or at least with one eye, as a retailer, as a former retailer.
So I do have a good sense of what will work anymore.
My God, if I can't do that, after buying books in the corporate office for 12 years, 10 years in that particular role, if I can't do that, I can't do anything.
I mean, I go back to what you said earlier.
You don't see where Jonathan saw the relevance of that particular.
It makes perfect sense to me.
I mean, because you really are looking for all of these.
It's not just the marketplace, but it certainly goes like what kind of a book.
I hesitate to use the word sells, but that's a P.O., outside of the Academy, which is really what Yale Press is trying to deal with.
And in fact, within the Academy to be smart,
I mean, I think you're right.
I mean, that's certainly what caught Jonathan's eye.
And I think it was, you know, I came to the press at a time when the press was really looking to ramp up its trade publishing program.
So, you know, it was just, it was fortuitous.
I think had I made that application maybe two or three years earlier,
Maybe they would have asked me if I'd actually finished my Ph.D.
work, and I hadn't.
But I do have this, I do also have this, these scholarly interests.
I mean, I was very much in that world for a while.
Tell me what you do during a week.
What's changing?
Any idea of how it goes.
I'm just afraid it's too terribly boring, even for the tape recorder.
Well, these are things for my ears only, so it's just, you know.
My day, a good part of my day is spent mostly moving projects forward through various stages of production.
That's the not very glamorous.
The interesting part of the job is strategizing about acquisitions, coming up with ideas for books, contacting authors, seeing if they're interested, calling up authors, seeing what they're working on.
The acquisition strategy is a solitary thing that happens.
It rarely happens in one's head.
If you were to give me a percentage, agents must argue all the time with ideas.
I'm different from most of the editors here in that, though I do deal with agents, most of my books come out of my head.
Really?
Oh, I love that.
Give me a couple of examples.
Well, the first one being the playwrights one, for instance.
That would be example number one.
That's example number one, but let's just take the current catalog, if I look through.
The Ivan Brunetti book, which is probably the book that we have in this particular catalog.
Sure.
pages 28 and 29, an anthology of graphic fiction, cartoons, and true stories.
That's a project I commissioned.
I contacted Ivan Brunetti, who is a well-known comic artist, and I asked him if he was interested in putting together an anthology that would both showcase some of North America's best
comics, as well as providing, through its selections, a kind of history at the medium.
And my model for this book was the McSweeney's volume that Chris Ware put together for McSweeney's.
And that had sold 40,000 or 50,000 copies for McSweeney's.
So that was very much on my radar screen.
And I thought there was room for another one if the selection was done in a slightly different way, if it were a more generous selection that wanted to give a kind of history of the medium.
So this is a fall book, right?
It's a fall book.
What was the extreme book again?
I'll show you my copy right here.
It has a ridiculous title, which you can't even see on the cover.
Who publishes this?
McSweeney's.
Who are they?
McSweeney's is a publishing outfit that was started by Dave Eggers.
It's an American publisher.
Yeah.
McSweeney's Quarterly Concern, issue number 13.
An assorted sample of North American comic flying strips.
That's all 40 to 50,000.
Yeah, I think 50,000.
I don't know it.
How did that happen?
It must be a terrific... Of course, people collect comic books, right?
Dave Eggers founded the magazine McSweeney's.
He also founded the publisher McSweeney's, and of course he's also the author of the memoir or novel, depending upon your point of view.
called A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius.
But almost all of the trade books that... Almost all of my trade books in the fall of six catalogs are ideas that came out of my head.
And is this book going to be comics?
The book that you're publishing?
Yes.
It's comics.
That's correct.
It's not text so much, it's comics.
It's both text and it's both word and image.
Depending upon whom you speak with, the so-called literary comic started maybe in the 60s or 70s.
Some people would look to Art Spiegelman as one of the pioneers.
Other people would point to a Pulitzer Prize winning book.
Other people would point to Robert Crumb.
But these are books that combine image and word in a sophisticated way.
Arguably in a literary way.
But that does bring it to the threshold of the university press, justifying it, I would imagine.
How does it get into the catalog?
How does it get into the mix?
I made the argument this way.
Look, Yale is an important publisher of art books.
This is primarily, though not exclusively, a visual art.
and tactile pleasure.
And it's certainly in keeping with the long history of art books here.
And moreover, the cartoon or the comic occupies a different place than it did at mid-century.
The comic is no longer just something for the Sunday fun.
So when you make
You bring it to the publication?
I bring it to the publication.
And you've got to make this pitch.
I bring it first to the acquisitions panel, and I make this pitch in kind of a similar way.
And they say, okay.
Do you have an author yet in mind for this?
No, wait.
Sometimes I don't even have an author in mind.
Sometimes I do.
Most often I do.
I've had some kind of preliminary conversation and usually a thin proposal, which I'm bringing.
So you contacted Brunetti?
You proposed the idea.
Right.
You thought it was fabulous.
I thought it was fabulous.
And he said, great.
And so now you have to bring it to your acquisitions committee.
I bring it to the acquisitions panel.
They say, great, offer him a contract.
Well, so you offer the contract before you've got a publication.
That's correct.
I do that.
For a book like this, I have to do that.
for a trade book of his kind.
So when you get to a publication committee, I mean, theoretically, they could reject it.
They could reject it.
So I have to be pretty confident that what I'm bringing forward is something that they'll accept.
But those members of the publication committee of whom I've spoken said that never happens anyway as a practical matter.
You have to trust your editors, is what they say.
Yeah, I think that's right.
And so again, this is all, you know,
And the final analysis is that either we trust our editors and their judgment or we don't, you know.
So, I mean, it's probably a 98% chance of that, unless it's so counter to everything that they believe in.
I think that's right.
I think you, I think it's an aspect of it.
They might have questions on the screen, the direction that the book might be taking.
They might want to see more.
developed in other areas.
But the committee tends to weigh in more heavily when it's something that's closer to home.
That is to say when it's a scholarly project.
And if the scholarship does not look up to snuff, if the scholarship seems odd in some way, then you will hear them weigh in very heavily.
It doesn't mean that they'll
quash the book, but it means that they may put it through a more rigorous peer review, or they may ask the editor to follow up in some way.
But they tend to be more vocal about things that are posted down.
I love that example, too.
Can you give me one more?
Sure.
Complicity with Evil, which is also a fall book for us.
Complicity with Evil?
Yes.
This is a book...
on the United Nations and genocide.
And that was a very late addition to our fall of six list, so late that you won't actually find a page for it in the book.
It was sold outside the catalog.
And the author?
The author is Adam LeBor.
How do you spell it?
L-E, capital B-O-R.
who is the Eastern European correspondent for the Times of London.
And he wrote a highly praised book, Biography of Milosevic, which was published by Bloomsbury in the UK and by Yale here in the States.
And he and I got to talking one night.
He was telling me that he found it rather remarkable that Kofi Annan's career had taken off quite in the way that it had.
After all, it was under Annan's watch, really, that the atrocities of Srebrenica and Rwanda had happened, partly under his watch.
And, you know, he was elevated to the head of the World Organization.
And then we began to talk in a more general way about how the institution of the UN itself might, both individuals and the institution, might be responsible.
for some of the recent acts of genocide, including the Balkans, particularly Srebrenica, Rwanda, and now Darfur.
And there are incredible parallels between, say, the atrocities of Srebrenica and Darfur, disturbing parallels.
So would you regard this as a form of, this is a phrase that I heard from the
for the first time, as a form of advocacy journalism, in one form or another?
And it's certainly kind of a funny view, isn't it?
It is a form, this book is a form of advocacy journalism, yeah.
Scholarship.
I'm not advocacy journalism, advocacy, scholarship is the phrase.
Advocacy journalism, we don't know what that is.
Advocacy, scholarship are the same.
You know, I would not call this book a book of scholarship.
The book is journalism.
LeBor is a journalist by training.
He was on the ground covering the Balkan Wars.
He knows the history of the Balkan Wars as well as anybody.
But it's reporting with...
analysis, apparently.
This is both reportage and argument.
It is a political book.
Which is?
It's an attempt to motivate the public.
It's an attempt to partly shame the world powers and the United Nations into taking some action in Darfur.
So did it take a political...
position?
LeBor is not one of these critics who wants to get rid of the United Nations.
He thinks it's the only thing that we have as a world organization that can intervene.
When's his book publishing?
October.
I'll have to hear it.
Is this the kind of thing that Yale stands to get some flack for?
This book will be much reviewed.
Of course, in December, Anand steps down from the United Nations, and a new secretary general will be appointed.
So the publication intentionally coincides with these events.
That is to say, as political observers and journalists
are analyzing, assessing Anand's career, this book will have to enter into the discussion.
That was very deliberate.
When did University Presses do this before?
This is not something that's historically something that the University Press is an institution.
I think it's wonderful.
It's different, isn't it?
It's the kind of thing that the University Press has to do, I think, today.
Yeah, I mean, maybe you would expect this from Random House or Simon and Schubert.
Yeah, and I wouldn't bet, you know, who's publishing it?
What difference is there?
Could he come out with the EFSG or whoever?
There were trade houses in their business that put books out there that are relevant and are going to be discussed by the University Preston with the question, because you're a not-for-profit, you know, moral business reflects some sort of political bias on the part of the university, which it doesn't.
Or if it took a different position, would Neil do it?
You know, these are the questions that I take normally, or not normally, but they could be asked.
Am I wrong on that or not?
This is not off the record, but this is now we're getting into a more delicate area.
I mean, we're a university press.
We do have a scholarly mission and a scholarly mandate.
One needs to balance that with other things.
It's not the first time I've heard this in other words, so don't feel that you're a lone ranger on this particular... I mean, certainly, to put it at the most abstract level, the most general level, I mean, you're balancing the trade list and the scholarly list.
It really goes back to the way I see this book shaping up.
It's what I call the Yale paradigm for success in university press publishing.
It seems to me we have to have one look for the other.
It's a somewhat artificial distinction.
You know, with revisionist eyes, we tend to call anything that has sold well a trade book.
But, you know, I would argue, for example, that... Well, while you're thinking, Princeton does a book called Bullshit,
which is a little scholarly thing, but then it sells 85,000 or something copies, and now it's a trade blockbuster, and he's publishing with a trade press.
It's got a book coming out this fall, but I don't even know what it is.
It's clearly exploiting its success from the other people.
That's a little book.
That's kind of what you're saying, right?
Yeah, I'll give you an even more extreme example, though.
Say a book by... This is just an example that I'm pulling out of my head because I'm looking at it on my bookshelf, but Jeffrey Hartman's Criticism in the Wilderness.
I mean, there's not anybody who will...
argue with the fact that this is a scholarly book, but in its day it was a kind of best-seller, and, you know, we're reissuing it.
A more recent example might be this annotated authoritative edition of Henry Davidson Rose Walden.
This is a book with high scholarly ambitions.
It is an authoritative text.
It improves upon the Princeton text.
The editor, Jeffrey Kramer, used as his copy text the first edition of Baldwin, the 1854 edition,
But he also used, he also looked at the galleys surviving manuscripts.
Not much of the Walden manuscript survived.
And he also looked at Thoreau's marginal notes in his personal copy of Walden.
So the idea was to put together the most authoritative text, most reliable text of Walden.
Well, it's a work of scholarship.
It's a work of scholarship, and you can see all the glossings that accompany this.
It's expensive.
I mean, when the Library of America does this, for instance, you get a nice text, you don't get any annotations.
Right.
Now, we published this on a trade discount.
Now, you tell me, is this a trade book or is it a scholarly book?
Well, you tell me what it sold.
It sold 10,000 copies.
It's a trade book.
10,000 is pretty good.
Maybe if it had sold 1,000 copies, we'd be calling it a scholarly book.
Yeah, but you packaged it nicely.
No, it's beautiful.
No, it's a beautiful... You knew where you were going with this.
I knew where I was going with this, yeah.
And what was the first printing on it?
The first printing on this was 5,000, and I had to argue for every single reprint.
Wow.
Really?
Even after the... Even after... Even after selling, you still have to go to bed for the reprint?
Still have to go... Auditors don't justify it?
No, oddly they don't, because there's always the fear that, yes, though there are X number of back orders, they will evaporate, you know, just as we reprint, and there won't be any future orders.
But in fact, this book has proven to be a steady, steady fellow.
And it's 04, I think.
I just noticed in the class.
That's right.
So it's been around.
Have you put any paper yet, or is it still on the head?
I have.
Not quite this text in paperback, but I stripped the Walden text out from this book.
That is to say, Thoreau's text minus all of the scholarly apparatus and minus all of the annotations.
Yeah, but that's what makes the book.
Right.
That's why it's more of a spin-off than it is a paperback edition of the annotated Walden.
My point is, and let's still be selling pretty decently in hardcover.
Oh, yeah.
Absolutely.
and then replication of it in paper.
That's exactly right.
I think they will do at some point for students and for classes.
I'm supposed to meet Tina at about 30, so I'd like to go on.
This is really good.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Can we continue, perhaps?
If you like.
Let me transcribe this at home.
Very good.
I've asked everybody this question, so I should ask you.
By the way, you showed me The Iceman Cometh by Eugene O'Neill.
Two quick questions.
Do you think the University Press should be publishing fiction?
You'd be surprised I had a variety of responses to that.
I don't think that they shouldn't.
Whether or not Yale should... And by that, I mean you're going out to get novelists the way, you know, the way you did when...
I would probably say this.
In the case of Yale University Press, it would make sense for us to venture into the area of contemporary fiction if we understand that to mean important translations.
Which is what John has in mind for another project that he's doing.
Yeah, but I don't think that Yale University Press should be in the business of trying to find
the next literary superstar.
LSU does this occasional fiction, I know.
Some places do.
I happen to think that that's one area where university presses cannot compete very well.
And there are so many other places doing it.
Why?
And doing it well.
So why?
What they aren't doing is poetry and drama.
What they aren't doing is poetry, drama.
So that's good.
That answers that.
And then quickly,
Because I've asked everybody this question, what would you like to see covered?
What would you like to read about your university press in a little celebration or an evaluation of this particular institution?
What is it that you don't know about this place that you'd like to know about it?
Of the 20 different people I've asked this question, I've had 20 different answers.
Did anybody say, I don't know?
That's good, too.
Would you just be interested in seeing what I come up with, I suppose?
I'm very curious to see the shape of the narrative.
It's going to be interesting, because it's going to be kind of chronological, but that's boring.
There's really three big phases here.
And I'm curious to see how you adjudicate all of the competing voices, because
It's certainly not a chorus.
There it is right there.
There's your contribution to this, by the way.
Go ahead.
Continue right now.
It's not a chorus.
It's more like... Oh, forget me.
It's more like 10 or 12 different barkers selling something different and all competing for your attention.
Well, it's kind of fun.
That's my job.
I better go.
Tina's probably thought I'd disappear.
Gotcha.